hello everyone in this video we are
going to see how Azure backup works by
backing up an Azure virtual machine
Azure backup is a service that you can
use to backup the virtual machines that
you have on your own premises also you
can backup Azure VMS and other file
shares managed disks and as in the list
you have many other services you are
doing this to keep your data safe from
let's say ransomware attacks or any
compliance reasons
now let's go ahead and create a virtual
machine on Azure so that we can
configure backup I have created this
small script to create the virtual
machine let me run this now my virtual
machine is now in place let me go to
Azure portal and click refresh
as you can see we have the virtual
machine what I'm going to do is I'm
going to RDP into it now let me go into
file explorer here on the C drive I'm
going to create a file
now I have changed the virtual machine I
have made a change to the C drive and
now let me close this and I'm going back
I'm going to operations and backup
section we have two approaches for us to
configure backup for this virtual
machine one of the ways is that
using this wizard here to create the
recovery services Vault and create the
backup we need a Recovery Services Vault
to keep the backup data when you do this
you also need a backup policy the
default policy has been selected you can
click on this and change the policy
today I'm not going to use this wizard
here I'm going to create a new Recovery
Services Vault first then I will create
the backup from that now I'm going into
the resource Group again and I'm going
to click on Create and then as you can
see we have backup and site recovery I'm
going to click create
this is the service that keeps our
backups and if we are working with site
recovery you will have that replications
as well today our topic is backup now
let me create a Recovery Services Vault
let's call it recovery service 1 and
since I have created my virtual machine
in Southeast Asia region I'm going to
select that
and then I'm going to go ahead and
create this resource all right let me go
in and here we have in the getting
started section we have backup and site
recovery and we have other section
protected items and when it comes to
protected items we have backup items and
replicated items in this video our
Target is backup and backup items I'm
going to backup and here we can select
the place where there are workloads are
running
since my virtual machine is running on
Azure I'm going to keep this as it is
and we have few options here we can
backup virtual machines as your file
shares virtual machines with SQL server
or subhana installed I'm going with
virtual machine and I'm going to click
on backup
now we can configure the backup policy
let me click on create a new policy and
you can name the policy and here we have
the configurations we can change the
backup frequency you can go from daily
to weekly when you're selecting weekly
you will have the option to change the
days of the week as well I'm going with
daily and you can change the time as
well this is a feature that lets you
restore your backups fast basically what
this will do is this will keep the
storage accounts that contains the files
hydrated two days are okay for me and
also we have few other options as well
configure weekly backups or even longer
term backups like monthly or yearly
backups as well and when you click on it
you have the option to change the
configurations for each of these items
and here as you can see Azure backup
creates a different Resource Group to
store the rest of points in a restore
point collection resource here we have a
text box that we can name that as well
but I'm going to keep this as it is let
me click OK all right now here we have a
summary of my backup schedule and now we
can select the virtual machines that we
want to be backed up with this policy
I'm going to click add and here we have
the virtual machine let me click OK and
we have an option here to backup only
the operating system disk I don't want
to do this for now let me enable backup
as you can see the deployment is
complete now I'm going into the resource
if I go into backup items now we can see
the backup management type and the
number of items in it and here we have
one in Azure virtual machine type let me
go into that and here we can see the
server virtual machine and the last
backup status is initial backup pending
as you can see we have no restore points
even though we have enabled backup we
have configured backup for these virtual
machines we haven't backed it up yet we
just created the schedule for it to
backup the virtual machine if we go here
I can click on it and create the backup
manually and we can specify the date
that we want this backup to be retained
by default this is a month from the date
that you're backing up you can change
this as well let me add a one day today
is 18th of this month and I can't add 19
I should add is it 20 here
as you can see this happens in a
synchronous manner triggering backup for
Server virtual machine this can take
some time depending on the size of your
virtual machine let's come back after
this is done
after around 10 minutes we can see
that we have a restore point in my Azure
Rica resources world now if you look
here this is a application consistent
backup and this snapshot contains the
virtual machine as a whole this uses
Windows Shadow copy to capture the
content of the machine memory and any
pending IO operations as well and if
this process fails for some reason there
will be a file system consistent backup
and here we have crash consistent as
well this level of consistency usually
occurs if the virtual machine is shut
down at the time of the backup now if I
click here
we can see the information on the
operations that is happening on the
virtual machines that I have attached to
this Recovery Services Vault now let me
go back and now if I go to the resource
groups section
here we can see a restore point
collection Resource as well now I'm
going back to the main Resource Group
and now I'm going into the virtual
machine resource and if I scroll down
into backup section we can see the same
UI as the recovery services Vault if we
go here into these three dots we have
the option to restore the virtual
machine or recover files I'm first going
to show you how to use file recovery let
me click on it now as you can see we
have three steps here the first one is
selecting the recovery Point since we
have only one recovery point we can't
change it as you can see and then we
have an option to download an executable
so what this will do is this will Mount
the drives of this recovery point on the
machine that we run this on now let me
download this all right now I have
downloaded the exe and I have moved the
exe to the virtual machine that we have
created earlier
and here if we go into C drive we have
the backup sample here now let me delete
this I'm going to Powershell and then
I'm going to run this as administrator
now let me run this exe I'm going to
desktop
and now we have to insert the password
that was generated here in the portal
I'm going to copy that and paste it here
now we have successfully mounted the
drives now I'm going into this PC and
here we have our Windows drive and
temporary storage of this virtual
machine and then we have two new drives
now if I go into this Windows drive we
can see the file that we have created
earlier now this is how you can use file
recovery of azure backup now let me
close this
and end this service I'm going to close
this as well
and here step three is we can unmount
the disks once you have recovered the
files that you want you can unmount it
from here now I'm going back
to the server VM now let's try out
restore VM option here you can do it
from here as well as you can see for
restoring the virtual machine we have to
specify a restore point for that we can
select
it from here
all right now we have two options we can
create a new virtual machine and we can
replace existing this option will
replace the disks of your existing
virtual machines now for this demo I'm
going with create new virtual machine
option now let me call it recovered VM
and then the same Resource Group is fine
the same virtual network is also okay
even the subnet is okay now here we have
to specify a staging location for this
backup
I'm specifying this storage account that
I have already created now let me click
on restore now as you can see the
asynchronous process has started let me
come back when this is done now if I go
into v-roll jobs here we have the rest
operation and as you can see it is
completed now I'm going into the
resource Group and
I'm going to refresh it here as you can
see we have the recovered virtual
machine now I can go in and as you can
see a public IP address has already been
assigned to this virtual machine and I
can just connect to it let me copy the
public IP address now I'm connecting to
the virtual machine I can use the same
username and password as well now I'm
going into files Explorer and C drive as
you can see we have the change that we
have done initially and today we learned
what Azure backup is and then we saw how
you can use file recovery to recover
files by mounting the register point on
a computer that you prefer and then we
saw how to create a full virtual machine
from that restart points if you have any
further questions or comments let me
know down below and don't forget to
subscribe and like this video If you
learned something new today and thanks
for watching