hello everyone today we are going to see
what Azure static web apps are and then
we are going to see how to deploy your
angular application that has a Azure
functions backend to end Azure static
web app unlike in Azure app services
this is a global Service that used to
host static web content so basically
your HTML CSS JavaScript files will be
delivered through cdns also this has a
first class Integrations with Source
controls like GitHub and Azure devops
pipeline so basically the only way that
you deploy to static web apps is using
this Source controls and if you go down
a bit you will see we have integrated
API support as well with Azure functions
and today I'm going to show you how to
deploy an Azure function as well and if
you go into Concepts and apis and API
support with Azure functions here you
will see that there are two ways for you
to deploy your Azure functions one is
managed functions the next one is bring
your own functions when it comes to
managed functions you're just deploying
your code along with your static
applications code but when it comes to
bring your own functions you're
deploying another function app and
you're attaching it
in this video I'm going to show you how
to work with managed functions and that
only supports HTTP protocol it doesn't
support any time triggers or anything
like that and when it comes to support
of these Front Times managed functions
only supports node.js Python and dotted
core currently and in this video I'm
going to show you how to work with
dotnet go first let me create a
repository on git
um let me call it
all right and this is all good let me
click create all right now that we have
the the URL and I'm going into vs code
and I'm going to clone this now that we
have our source control in place let me
create our angular application
for that
let me call it um sample static app
right I made a mistake there but yeah I
don't want any routing here and CSS is
okay all right now that we have our
angular application in place let me add
a few things here I'm going to app and
this component here and I'm going to
remove some of these existing code I'm
going to do it from here to here
and here I'm going to add only one text
box
now let me save it and go to app
component
here I'm going to add this here this
will send HTTP requests every time when
someone types
on this input and finally let me go to
app module and here I'm going to add
HTTP and forms module
all right our angular application is
ready now as you can see someone types
something here this function will
trigger and this will set an HTTP
request to the back end of this
application now it is time for me to add
an Azure function to this angular
application for that you should have
azure
static web apps this extension you
should have this installed let me
install that now all right now I'm going
back to my directory and then I'm going
to press Ctrl and P and then I'm going
to search for static web apps as you can
see we have an option to create a HTTP
function and now it is asking me the
language that I want this function to be
in I'm going with C sharp and the
function name I'm going to call it that
and the namespace
and finally it is asking me the
authentication type I'm going with
Anonymous for this sample all right now
as you can see we have generated the
functions application inside of the main
repo
as you can see I'm not going to change
anything here so the basically this
function will send you this message
every time you call it so this is good
enough for me now let me close this
and now
our app is ready now let me Commit This
all right now if I go to the repository
and refresh this as you can see we have
API and static application as well and
now I'm going into Azure portal and I'm
going to create this static web
application for that I'm going to click
create resource here and I'm going to
search for static Maps
and click create
I need a new Resource Group as well and
a name I can just give it any name
because this is not a globally unique
identifier for this web app and then
hosting plan this is going to be a free
one and if you're going with standard
one it will cost you around nine dollars
per web application this is the
environment for Azure functions API so
basically the the static content that
you serve with this is globally
distributed and here we have the option
to integrate with Source control since
I'm using GitHub I can just click sign
in
all right as you can see we have options
to select the organization and
repository and Branch let me select
those now
all right
that is done now we have to provide the
build information since this is an
angular application I'm selecting
angular here and there are a few things
that you should insert here correctly
otherwise the app won't work
for application if you go here this is
the application location in this repo
I'm going to
provided here and then the API location
this is the API location
and finally the output location is
usually dist slash the name of our
application now if you go back
to visual 3D code and angularjson you
can see that here
we copy that
and paste it here like this
and as you can see it is giving me a
preview of GitHub workflow file I'm
going to review and create all right now
let me click create our deployment is
complete now let me go to the resource
and here you will see a URL for
accessing this here you will see
the link to the yml file in my GitHub
repo
let me click on this I'm going into
actions
here as you can see this deployment
ongoing now let's wait for around one to
two minutes and when this deployment is
complete we can go and see how the app
works as you can see our deployment is
complete now then we go back to Azure
portal now let me go to this link here
as you can see our angular app is online
now what happens if I type my name here
as you can see this is getting updated
and this is coming from the web API that
we have hosted there if you look into
Network tab
you will see that
as you can see every time I type
something this sends an HTTP request to
the function app that we have hosted
inside of this static web app
and if you look here we have an option
to integrate with application insights
and add custom domains and also if you
go here we will be able to see the
function that we have deployed as you
can see here and if you go into
environments you can see the GitHub link
that we have created today we learned
about Azure static web apps and we
deployed an angular application with net
Azure functions backend if you have any
questions or comments leave them down
below and don't forget to subscribe if
you learned something new today and
thanks for watching