Raspberry Pi might have just sherlocked
real VNC what does that mean well if
you're not familiar with Apple history
there was an old thirdparty app called
Watson it was kind of an everything
search with plugins and stuff Apple
integrated a new tool right into the OS
called Sherlock that did essentially the
same thing can you guess what happened
to Watson Apple's done that a few times
now like with growl flux and
confabulator Raspberry Pi just announced
connect a VNC service directly
integrated into Raspberry Pi OS 12 does
that really make real vinia redundant
though no not completely I mean
Raspberry Pi's Ambitions for connect are
a lot smaller skill Raspberry Pi
launched P OS 12 Bookworm in October
last year they switched from the old X11
window system to a more modern setup
using whand but because real VC was
built for X11 it broke there's a way to
switch back to X11 to get real VC
working but after 6 months realvnc still
doesn't work with the default setup
realvnc is a handy way to remote control
computers like my dad uses it he has a
Raspberry Pi at each of his remote tower
sites so he can monitor transmitter
equipment through their web uis it's
relatively secure and it means he
doesn't need any sight tosite vpns just
a pi running real VNC users like my dad
started buying Raspberry Pi 5S or
upgrading to bookworm on their Pi 4S and
quickly found out real vinc didn't work
anymore at least out of the box so
instead of waiting for real VC Raspberry
Pi launched their free connect service
it's in beta right now and it doesn't
sound like there's a plan to monetize it
at least not yet I've been testing it
out for a few months and while it works
great it's not a direct replacement for
real VNC how do I know that well take my
D again he uses it with pies sure but he
also has other computers he manages like
Macs and windows PCS he has a multi-user
plan and uses some mobile app features
that are hard for Raspberry Pi connect
to add since it's just a web UI
Raspberry Pi connect is more limited but
that's not a bad thing in fact I think
that's good because the more it would do
the further the soft Ware team at
Raspberry Pi would be stretched to keep
it stable and secure building VNC
software shouldn't take precedence over
making Linux run great on the pi or
making the Pico easy to develop for they
keeping connect really trim it only runs
on pios on newer pies and it doesn't
have any VPN features SSH access or
mobile apps it's just VNC and a web UI
it's built on top of way VNC a solid VNC
server in my testing the web UI runs
great on any modern browser I've tested
it on my Mac window Windows iPad even my
iPhone there are a few quirks and I
still hope real VNC gets full Wayland
support but it's nice having connect
setup is easy you create a Raspberry Pi
ID install rpy connect and log in
there's a little widget in the system
tray and you can go to connect.
raspberry pi.com on any device to
connect to any PI you set up I've tested
with a pi5 and a pi4 and I've been
testing from home from my car and from
other networks the way it sets up the
connection it tries to do a direct
peer-to-peer connection but sometimes it
connects through through a relay server
it doesn't stream all the data through
that relay but it will hold the
connection alive through it like when
you're connecting with cgnat from a cell
phone or Wireless isbs and it's fast
enough for me I mean here on the land of
course it's going to be buttery smooth
but even at home I get acceptable
latency you can ignore how slow YouTube
is though this this is on my Pi 4 and
YouTube is just kind of like that on the
pi4 but generally everything else is
Snappy and there are some basic remote
access features like you can copy text
from the remote P or paste text to it
and there are some modifier Keys like
control alt and Escape down at the
bottom there isn't a way to get it to
pop the onscreen keyboard on my iPhone
or iPad so Mobile use is limited but it
does work with a Bluetooth keyboard if
you have one of those around the screen
resizes to fit your browser window by
default but you can also set a
resolution or if you have a monitor
plugged into the pi it'll keep that
resolution in fact in some of my testing
I plugged in one of these an HDMI Ed
emulator that way I could emulate having
a physical monitor plugged in now one
limitation you can't run P connect on a
p running pyos light it has to be the
full P version with a desktop
environment and you also need to have
Auto login enabled at least right now
that might change I mean remember this
is a beta so there are some limitations
with it these are all pretty ideal
conditions though but what happens in
the worst case like when I'm out
Tethered to my mobile phone with a less
than perfect connection I drove out to a
park and tethered my computer to my
phone's internet connection through AT&T
and out here at least the connection is
pretty bad it's like a one one or two
megabits per second up and down 500
milliseconds to a full second of latency
so practically the worst case scenario
for an urban environment and uh things
still work it requires a lot of patients
to use it this way it it's much more
pleasant to use it on a wired connection
at home or somewhere with a better
internet connection uh but it works and
if you're if you're in a pinch and you
need to do something on your pie at
another location this could work um a
couple things I I noticed though one is
that it says that both your device and
browser chose to use connects relay so
that means that right now the the
metadata for this connection is going
from here in St Louis up to London where
they have their main server and then
back down to St Louis through AT&T's
wireless network so that might add a
little bit of extra time too I think
they might have plans on having more
relay servers around the world maybe
maybe not uh but that's one thing to
keep in mind uh when you're on a
wireless connection like this and it
uses cgnat or whatever technology to to
make that connection uh the other thing
that I think would be nice is if they
had the ability to turn off all the
animations in the UI so whand on the pi
has like it zooms in and zooms out when
you close windows and that's just
wasting bandwidth because when I close
the terminal window and it zooms out it
has to send extra frames for that and it
just it just bogs things down a little
bit so it'd be cool if you could disable
that and when you close the window it
just disappears right away uh but
otherwise in a pinch this works I
wouldn't recommend it generally though
and and this isn't just exclusive to
connect this is a problem with any uh
desktop sharing thing when I share my
Mac desktop over over the VPN it does
the same thing when you're on a slow
connection that's just it's the nature
of the beast when you're sharing video
over a really slow connection but it it
works it works you know that's the main
thing uh it's just patience patience is
a very important virtue to have when
you're working over a 4G or 5G so Pie
connect it can get confused if you have
things like multiple monitors but you
can work around that in settings realvnc
handles situations like that better just
like it works on mobile a bit nicer but
in the end I think one thing a lot of
people might wonder about is trust can
you trust Raspberry Pi's service since
it controls remote access to your Pi I
mean I do but I'm a pretty trusting guy
I think if you have deeper requirements
you would probably still want to run
your own sight tosite VPN anyway but
besides that one nagging question in the
back of my mind is whether it's going to
stay free that wouldn't be a question
except for the fact that Raspberry Pi is
considering an IPO something I covered a
few months ago if Raspberry p goes
public what's to stop someone from
coming in later and monetizing connect I
hope it doesn't happen but if it does
that' be annoying maybe a paid tier for
advanced features someday but then
they're getting into real VNC territory
and I mentioned I think they should keep
it simple that also helps keep it low
cost for them to run which helps keep it
free but am I being overly cautious I
hope so raspberry pies had a decent
history with their open source work so
it would be cool if they eventually open
up all the code behind the service too
but even if not it's nice to have more
options especially simple ones that are
quick and easy to get up and running if
py connect meets your needs great if not
there's still a place for real vanc it
hasn't been sherlocked yet until next
time I'm Jeff Kling