hello everyone in this video we are
going to learn what Azure virtual
Network appearing is and then we're
going to see how you can configure that
on Azure so let's get started now I'm in
Microsoft Azure official documentation
page for virtual Network appearing as it
says here with virtual Network peering
you can seamlessly connect two or more
virtual networks on Azure and the
traffic between these virtual machines
in paired virtual networks is traveled
through Microsoft backbone
infrastructure and there are mainly two
types of pairing virtual Network peering
and Global virtual Network pairing in
Virtual Network peering you're
connecting basically two virtual
networks that are within the same Azure
region but when it comes to Global
Network appearing we are connecting two
virtual networks across two regions
if you come here to this page there are
a few things that you can learn such as
the limitations of global virtual
Network peering and things like that so
let me go back to what we are going to
do today
so here as you can see we are going to
deploy two virtual networks in two Azure
regions one in Southeast Asia and one in
West us and then I'm going to install
Apache server on West us region virtual
machine
and then I'm going to enable
Global peering between these two virtual
networks and then I'm going to show you
how you can access the web server that I
have deployed in West us region now to
deploy the architecture that I've shown
you I have written a script here as you
can see I have declared some variables
the resource Group name and the location
and the v-net infra information and
things like that and the first thing
that I'm going to do is create a
resource Group and the next thing is I'm
creating a virtual Network in Southeast
Asia region and I'm creating two VMS in
Southeast Asia region and after that I
am going to West us region and here as
well I'm creating another question
Network and a subnet and a VM and after
that I'm going to install Apache on West
us virtual machine now let me copy the
commands the scripts that I have written
here
and then I'm going to open up my
Powershell window like this
and then I'm going to paste it here
as you can see the resources are getting
created now
all right all the resources just got
created and I will link this script down
below if you want to try this out and
now let me go to my Azure portal and as
you can see I have just created this
Resource Group with my script and if I
go in
you'll be able to see that all the
resources are in here some of those
resources are in Southeast Asia and some
of those are in West us let me Group by
type
yeah as you can see here we have three
VMS and two virtual networks and few
public IPS and and all the other
resources as well let me show you the
some review and as you can see we have
some resources in West us and some
resources in Southeast Asia as well and
now if I go to Resource visualizer and
as you can see we have two virtual
Network and they're not connected at all
they are in separate regions now let me
go to these virtual machines and connect
to
two of them uh let me Group by type and
go into
this VM and that is in Southeast Asia
and copy this IP address and I'm going
to open my command prompt
and I'm going to SSH into it
all right I'm in and then I'm going to
SSH into the other region as well let me
go to Azure portal again and
to this virtual machine that that is in
West us and I'm going to copy that going
back and then all right now I have
logged into these two regions and the
next thing that I'm going to do is
install the Apache web server so for
that let me log in as root and then I'm
going to paste these commands update
um install
all right now our website is ready let
me add this text
to my HTML page that is in my web server
and then let me get the IP address of
this VM
as you can see and that is
this thing here
and I'm going back to Southeast Asia
virtual machine and let me curl it from
here
as you can see I'm not getting anything
because these virtual networks are not
peered yet now let me go to Azure portal
and configure virtual Network pairing
now as you can see I'm in my Resource
Group and I'm going to click on this
virtual Network that is in Southeast
Asia and then I'm going into pairings
here and then I'm going to click add
I am going to name this pairing
appearing
SCA and then I'm going to keep all these
things as default now let me give a name
to this one as well I'm going to call it
pairing West us and this will create two
pairings one from Southeast Asia to West
us and one from West U.S to Southeast
Asia now let me select the virtual
Network
the subscription is this and the virtual
network is with Device because I'm
currently in Southeast Asia and then I'm
going to click add and this is in
updating State now this will be
connected within few seconds if you
click refresh few times here as you can
see now it's connected let me go to my
command prompt again and let me try this
now
as you can see I'm getting this message
from West us region let me do a ping to
that as well
all right the thing is working now if I
get the IP address of this machine
and that is
1004 and I'm going to bring that from
best us as well
all right the two-way communication is
working now now if I go back to my Azure
portal and resource visualizer you'll be
able to see the virtual Network
appearing is active as you can see this
is the uh with the virtual Network in
Southeast Asia and this is the virtual
Network invest us and this pairing is
represented like this hope you learned
something new today if you have any
questions or comments you can leave down
below and if you want to be updated with
what I'm doing you can subscribe to my
channel as well and thanks for watching