hello everyone today let's understand
the difference between Azure SQL and SQL
managed instances
here I mean my create Resource page I'm
going to search for managed
instances here
when I'm getting Azure SQL managed
instances if I go here I can see a high
level description of what managed
instances are the key point that you
should understand is that this is highly
compatible with Azure SQL Enterprise
that you have on your on-premise
environment
the key problem that this serves is that
the organizations that wants to migrate
from their on-premise databases to Azure
this will make it much easier for them
to migrate to Azure because if you have
been working with Azure SQL databases
for some time you know that Azure SQL is
missing some features that you have in
your on-premise environment and here
they have all those features
this helps organizations to migrate the
on-premise workloads on-premise SQL
Server workloads to Azure so if you go
here to this page
this will list down all the differences
of azure SQL versus SQL managed
instances and if you go back to this
page the next key point is that this is
not a public resource this is a usual
this is deployed in a isolated virtual
Network and Azure SQL does not support
that feature so if I go here and click
on create you can select the resource
Group you can enter the uh
managed instance name and you can select
the region and if you go here the
computer and storage section one
difference that you might notice is that
it doesn't have the DTU model and even
if I select the cheapest one I still get
a pretty big monthly cost because this
is mainly targeted towards Big
corporations that wants their on-premise
workloads on Azure so that's why cost is
pretty high and if you already have an
SQL Server license you can you know
you'll get a reduced cost so if I'm
going to click apply here the next
setting here is that I have to um
create an account
so if I go here the next tab the the
networking configuration as you can see
this is mainly targeted towards virtual
Network kind of a setup also you can
enable this public endpoint and you can
configure you can basically
um create an industry inbound traffic
rule to access it from public I'm not
going to do that now so uh so the next
thing is these are the the normal
database settings the collation and your
applications and things like that
and I'm not going to insert any tags
here and then
um I'm going to create the database and
one thing to notice is that this will
take a long time to complete so for
example they here say that it's uh it's
for six hours but usually it's uh it
differs but this takes a long time so
I'm going to create it here
all right now it's creating uh when you
want to access this database using ssms
let's say you cannot just access it from
public what you can do is you can create
a virtual machine and access it from
there now you have an understanding on
what managed instances are hope you
learned something new today if you have
any questions or comments you can leave
them below and if you want to be updated
with what I'm doing you can subscribe to
my channel as well and thanks for
watching