hello everyone in this video we are
going to learn about Azure Arc with
Azure Arc you can manage your non-azure
resources like your kubernetes cluster
on-prem virtual machines and SQL servers
on Azure as if they're running on Azure
in a hybrid world like today this is a
very powerful feature to have if I
scroll down a bit
we have the features that Azure Arc
supports as I said it helps you manage
centrally a wide range of resources like
kubernetes clusters SQL servers and
Linux or Windows Virtual machines and
Azure application Services as well I
will get into this in a minute and also
you can manage the life cycle of virtual
machines that are running on Azure stack
HCI the hyper converged infrastructure
service from Azure and also VMware
environments as well and also you can
meet the governance requirements of
these non-ajo resources through Azure
policy and finally we can use Azure
role-based Access Control to provide
access to these non-natural resources
through Azure portal now if I scroll
down we have one more interesting
feature that Azure Arc enables us to do
and that is azure awk enabled
application Services usually what Azure
Arc does is that it will bring your
non-azure or your on-premise or could be
a different Cloud as well these
resources into Azure but with Azure Arc
enabled application Services you can
bring Azure services like app Services
function apps and logic apps from Azure
to other non-azure infrastructures for
example how this happens is that let's
say you have a kubernetes cluster
running on premises you can connect that
kubernetes cluster to Azure and after
connecting when you create these
Services instead of selecting the region
for this deployment you can direct you
can select the kubernetes cluster that
you have in your on-premise environment
so Azure will deploy Azure services like
app Services function apps and Logics
apps to that environment after the
deployment you'll be able to see that
the containers are popping up in that
kubernetes cluster and you don't have to
pay for these Services because you are
running the services in your on-prem
environment and you can centrally manage
everything now we have a better
understanding of what Azure Arc is let's
get right into a demo so that you will
have a better understanding of this
service what I'm going to do is I have
this virtual machine that is running in
my local machine it is a Windows Server
virtual machine and I'm going to connect
this virtual machine to Azure so that I
can manage these using Azure portal and
if you want to try this out and if you
don't have a virtual machine running in
your computer or if you don't have
hyper-v installed you can use another
Azure virtual machine for doing this
you can go into this page here I will
link this down below and you can stop
certain Services running on that virtual
machine and you can connect that virtual
machine as a Arc enabled server to azure
there's no really point of doing it
unless it is educational thing because
you don't have to connect an Azure
virtual machine as a Arc enable server
to azure
and when a server is connected to Azure
it becomes an arc enabled server and
it's treated as a resource in Azure each
Arc enabled server has a resource ID a
managed identity and is managed as part
of a resource Group inside of a
subscription and as I said Arc enabled
servers benefit from standard Azure
constructs such as inventory policy tags
and Azure Lighthouse now let me go into
Azure portal and here I have created
this Resource Group now I'm going to
create the representation of this
virtual machine on Azure for that let me
go into create a resource and search for
Arc as you can see we have a few options
here we have kubernetes and few other
options I'm going to go with servers
because we are connecting a virtual
machine to Azure now let me click create
and we have few options yes you can see
we can connect a single server and
multiple servers and you can add servers
from update management and these are
preview features I'm gonna go with add a
single server you should know few things
before going ahead and connecting your
service charge measure we have to
whitelist few Services because these are
the endpoints that your virtual machine
will connect to after configuring the
virtual machine has a Arc enabled server
you should whitelist these and you
should have local administrator
permission in your local machine to run
this script and also you can connect to
this device using a private endpoint
through virtual Network I'm not going
into this in this video now let me click
next here and now we have to specify the
resource Group I'm going to go with
Azure Arc demo the resource Group that
we have created for this demo and then
we have to specify the region I'm going
to go with the closest region to me in
the operating system it's a Windows
Virtual Machine that I have here and I'm
going to connect through a public
endpoint not a proxy server not a
private endpoint I'm going to click next
and as you can see here we have a few
default tags available for this resource
I'm going to keep the messages and now
we have this script that we should run
in our with your machine to connect that
to Azure I'm going to copy this script
here and then I'm going to go into my
virtual machine and then open up
Powershell with administrator privileges
and then I'm going to paste this script
here as you can see it is downloading
all the other scripts that is required
for connecting this virtual machine to
Azure once this configuration is
complete the connected machine which is
this virtual machine right here sends a
regular heartbeat message every five
minutes to azure when the heartbeat is
not received Azure portal will display
this Arc enabled server as a offline
server now as you can see here it wants
me to log in using device login I'm
going to copy this link here and then
I'm going to paste it here all right now
let me insert this code as well all
right now let's wait for one or two
minutes and come back alright as you can
see we have successfully onboarded the
resource Glazer now let me go into Azure
portal and resource groups and Azure Arc
demo and here we have my local virtual
machine represented on Azure now if I go
in as you can see the status is
connected and there are a few other
information here as well we have the
computer name and operating system and
manufacturer model and all that on the
left we have settings and operations and
as I said we can use these features like
extensions policies update management
and all these to manage our non-azure
resources as if it was an Azure resource
now in this video I'm going to show you
three things the first one is I'm going
to show you how you can use Azure policy
for managing compliance of these
non-natural resources and then I'm going
to show you how you can use Azure log
analytics workspace to view events of my
non-natural virtual machine
finally I'm going to show you how you
can install IIs using Azure portal on
this virtual machine using custom script
extensions now let me go into home and
our Resource Group and I'm going into
policies to show how you can create
policies and view compliance and as you
can see I do not have any policy
assignments for this Resource Group I'm
going to click on assign policy and the
scope is this Resource Group and I can
select the police definition here since
I'm planning to connect this virtual
machine to Azure log analytics workspace
I can add that policy so that we can see
the compliance of it configure Azure Arc
enabled Windows machine with log
analytics agent connected to default log
analytics workspace and this is the
policy that I'm going to introduce to
this Resource Group now let me go ahead
and create this policy and it usually
takes around 15 to 30 minutes to
validate this policy against the
resources that I have in my Resource
Group as you can see it is not started
let's come back to this after doing our
log analytic workspace configuration and
custom script extension demo that I'm
planning to do now I'm going into the
resource Group again and the server and
if I go into extensions as you can see I
do not have any extensions installed
already now I will click add to install
a new extension first I'm going to
install log analytics agent on this
virtual machine I'm going to click next
and here we have to specify the
workspace ID and a workspace key of A
Azure log analytics workspace now let me
create a new log analytics workspace I'm
going to click create and we can specify
the resource Group I'm going to go with
the existing Resource Group and then
region
I'm going to name this Arc demo
workspace
and I'm going to click create
all right our log analytics workspace is
in place now I'm going to that and if I
go into agents management and as you can
see we have zero Windows computers
connected to it and zero Linux computers
connected to it because we have just
created this and I'm going to copy this
workspace ID and primary key and I'm
going to paste them here
all right I'm going to review and create
this log analytics Azure extension
this can take around three to five
minutes let's come back after this is
complete all right as you can see we
have successfully installed the
monitoring agent in my virtual machine
now if I go into the workspace and logs
and let's see let's close this and we
have a new table here heartbeat let's
see what we have in there as you can see
here we have four heartbeats received
from my virtual machine and as you can
see we have a lot of information here if
I go into The Columns of this table we
have OS information and also the remote
IP country and all that information as
well and this is how you can connect a
non-natural virtual machine through
Azure walk to Azure log analytics
workspace the final thing that I'm going
to show you is installing IIs in my
virtual machine through Azure portal now
let me go into the resource Group again
and I'm going into
The Arc enabled server and and then I'm
going into extensions as you can see we
have one extension already installed and
then I'm gonna add this custom script
extension for Windows I'm going to click
next now here we can upload the script
that we want
our virtual machine to run now I have
already uploaded a script of Powershell
file to this storage account now if I go
into that storage account it has a
container one container and inside of
that container it has this script now
let's see whether I can review that
if we're going to edit
as you can see it only has two lines it
just Imports the the server manager and
add this Windows feature now let me go
back and select that Powershell
script
all right and I do not have any
arguments for the script here
let me go ahead and review and create
this custom script extension for Windows
this will take few minutes let's come
back after that as you can see the
custom script extension deployment is
complete now if I go into the virtual
machine and
so a manager and let's try reopening
this
as you can see here we have IIs
installed in the virtual machine and let
me try to access it
yeah that works now as the final step
let's go into the resource Group and see
whether we have our policy compliant
with our virtual machine now let me go
into home and Arc demo and policies as
you can see it is 100 compliant because
we have installed lock analytics
extension in my virtual machine and that
is why this is compliant this is the end
of this video and in this video I wanted
to show you what Azure Arc is and what
Arc enabled application services are we
saw how to connect a on-prem hyper-v
machine to Azure we saw how Azure policy
works with Azure Arc enabled servers and
how to connect a virtual machine to
Azure log analytics workspace and
finally we saw how to run a script using
a custom script extension and we
installed IIs on my arc enabled server
if you have any questions or comments
please let me know down below and don't
forget to like this video And subscribe
if you learned something new today I
will see you with another video like
this thanks for watching