[Music]
hi I'm alisandra and I'm here to tell
you about Apple Vision Pro the best way
to truly experience vishion from is to
try it yourself in an Apple store but
today you'll see it Through The Eyes of
someone who's never tried it before like
will let's get started I'm excited go
ahead and put on Vision
Pro when you put on Apple Vision Pro
what you see is your space and
everything in it oh wow okay I'm seeing
can you see me I can see you hi hey so
you can see me what's also amazing is I
can see you I can see your eyes and your
Expressions you can see my eyes yeah now
let's explore how to navigate Apple
Vision
[Music]
Pro so this is the home view of Vision
Pro the home view is where you access
all your apps and experiences anytime
you want to get back there just simply
reach up with your right hand and press
it as you ground this one exactly you
you navigate using your eyes hands and
voice you simply look at
something and tap your fingers together
to
select
what yeah I'm seeing the photos right
now it's like right there this is this
huge thing right here in front of us
let's start by selecting one
photo you'll notice that the room dims
around the picture oh yeah to make the
photo bigger simply look at the corner
and pinch and
drag
wow this is amazing to zoom it's what
you'd expect look where you want to zoom
pinch your fingers together and pull
both hands
apart what and you don't have to have
your hands up in the a they can rest
comfortably down in your lap okay oh
yeah okay let's Zoom back out okay there
we go look CRA I didn't even have see to
zoom out so how do I move it around it's
easy just look at the window bar beneath
the app do you see it uh-huh pinch your
fingers
together and you can push it out pull it
in move it side to
side so crazy and you can even put it on
the
ceiling oh
[Music]
wow when you're ready I want to show you
a
panorama let's do it so now to panoramas
on the left
sideb choose
one and expand the image in the upper
right hand corner come
on for the first time you can see
panoramas at life
siiz it's wrapping around
me so you can just take this Panorama
with your phone yeah right and then put
it on here any pan
you've ever taken on your iPhone you can
experience like this WOW next let's
explore a brand new realm of Photography
called spatial fos okay I went back in
spatial this is one of my favorite Parts
about Apple Vision Pro there's an added
Dimension to them you really have to
experience it for yourself it's almost
like peering into a moment in time it's
exactly like
that and I can look at this from
different
angles I can almost smell the smoke
and you can actually take these spatial
videos with your iPhone 15 Pro or with
apple Vision Pro all right want to go to
the movies sure open the TV app you can
actually navigate with your voice okay
Siri open Apple
TV cool to scroll you pinch your fingers
together and you pull it in the
direction that you want the content to
go it's almost like pulling on a piece
of invisible string all right so the
first thing you're going to do is you're
going to scale up the screen so it
really takes over your
space like
this
[Music]
what it's so
big I feel like I have my own movie
theater you've used this before right so
you know what I'm looking at yes this is
incredible
with apple Vision Pro your workspace
isn't confined to the size of a monitor
you can use your whole Space so it can
take on an entirely new
dimension first open mail and you can
place it wherever you want okay going to
put it right here now we're going to
turn on some music go ahead and play
song you like
okay
okay let's put it right there right over
your shoulder right
there and how's it sound that's
incredible it's the sound is surrounding
it's surround sound it's all around so
that spatial audio is actually coming
from the audio pods they sit just
outside your ears they deliver that
sound which is that rich spatial audio
next let's scale up Safari so it's nice
and big right in front of you I'm okay
there it
is so how do you feel about your
workspace
I mean is huge okay I want you to close
the amps
okay and follow
me someone's going to give you a quick
call hey Will how's it going my name is
Yuri nice to meet you hey hey so I'm
actually calling from a Mac and I wanted
to show you how FaceTime feels like on
Apple Vision Pro today okay so let's
scale the window so I'm lifesize and
it's going to feel like I'm in the room
with you let me try
it it's pretty cool my colleague
Kristen's going to call you now so have
fun I'll talk to you later thank you how
we good
one hey Will it's Kristen hey why why
does your FaceTime look different from
Yuri I'm wearing Apple Vision Pro just
like you this is my Persona you can see
my facial expressions my hand gestures
and it's all in real time huh wow yeah
do I look the same way yeah your person
is awesome anyway I'll let you get back
to Alandra see you later all right take
care sometimes you just eat a little
piece and quiet to get things
done open environments from the home
view now choose one how about this one
wow environments let you expand your
space now this is an office it could be
an office but environments also work
with any
app so now look at
me what you're coming through the scene
exactly breakthrough lets you stay
connected to the people around you even
if you're fully immersed you can also
control the level of immersion in an
environment simply by spinning the
digital
Crown yeah it's
disappearing now I've got something cool
to show you you can bring your Mac right
into Vision Pro and it instantly turns
your screen into an enormous
display go ahead and select
connect
whoo so the laptop screen just appeared
into the space in front of
me it's amazing all right enough work
yeah yeah yeah yeah well okay yeah
enough
work let's open
mindfulness okay so this is an app that
fully expands into your space enjoy a
moment of peace and I'll be here when
you're
done inhale
[Music]
appreciation exhale
care it's
beautiful can I do a 20-minute version
of this I'm just
kidding let's keep going I want to show
you some other fun experiences in apple
Vision Pro scroll to the second page of
apps on the home View and select
encounter dinosaurus and if you hold out
your finger something may land on
it no
way and you can even bring it closer to
you
wow this is an interactive narrative
that brings prehistoric times right into
your living room uh yeah I'm seeing the
world open
up I get nervous and I'm not even doing
the demo is that a Raptor it's a
rajasaurus if you shift from side to
side the rajasaurus Will Follow
You W okay so that's what we've got for
you today
ah that was
amazing we've only skimmed the surface
of what you can do today with apple
pishing Pro check out the brand new app
store for over a million apps available
on day one
thanks for watching so nice to meet
[Music]
you