we're here at next24 with Richard serer
none other than our chief evangelist at
Google Cloud Richard thank you so much
for being here with us thank you so much
for inviting me just to kick it off yeah
we do next every year what's your
favorite part of coming to next what
really excites you about this I mean
selfishly it's I'm not just pandering
it's seeing people like you and the team
like we have a big team and we're all
over the world and this is that one rare
chance we get to all be in the same room
at the same time and hang out together
so I love all the people coming here but
they're second to uh the team you hear
that team for number one in his heart so
like I said The Kino was amazing you you
know maybe I'm biased but I feel like
every year they get better you and Chloe
did an amazing job hosting really
inspirational uh makes me want to be a
better developer and developer advocate
so you kicked it off strong with uh
Gemini 1.5
uh provision and you showed how we can
get insights from video but also from
huge databases so can you showare some
of these amazing numbers that you talked
about yeah I mean that huge context
window we keep talking about all these
tokens I can pass in just the idea of
and we could give it the 75 minute video
we gave of last year's keynote and
actually get back details of who spoke
when and when did we show a demo like
it's not just reading a transcript it's
actually understanding the video which
is amazing so I just love this idea that
be able to pass in so much code or giant
documents or whatever it is or one of
those long emails our bosses sends us it
can process the actual whole thing I
think it's pretty cool to be able to
think about not having to over architect
these really complicated Solutions maybe
it's just one Gemini call and I don't
know we should be aiming for Simplicity
and I think I'm seeing more and more of
that which is great yes I love how you
talked about simplifying the the
complexity of gen which is amazing and I
know selfishly also that's a great
feature that I love use when there's a
huge code base and you just need a quick
summary right yeah exactly who can
process all that stuff I just summarized
give me the gist that's all we need yeah
Gemini is changing the way that
developers deliver software and you
mentioned a few key ways in which that's
happening right better coding better
platforms and better Ops can you talk to
me a little bit about each of those yeah
the better coding is a good part of a
how do I just again build how do I
complete my code add better test like
just better quality can I ship it faster
can I get better value from that so I
think we saw a lot of that in the Kino
with cool Frameworks like nextjs and
calling it The Gemini end points this
isn't just Google tech I want everybody
using all kinds of languages using this
so that's the exciting part is we're not
really a uh homogeneous Vibe here for
developers like use your favorite IDE
use your favorite language I think
that's great so you need the coding part
but then there's a big platform piece
like I need how am I going to serve up
models what are the right models how do
I do this retrieval augmented Generation
stuff like how do we do that really
really well we've SE we saw some great
examples in the keynote all the
breakouts of yeah let's just make
platforms better let's have them be
smarter let's have them be easier
managed we saw demonstrations from uh
folks on gke side of make it easier to
run gke with AI like help us understand
what's going on I love that and then
yeah the Ops part troubleshooting is
still not easy and now we're just
generating more data so if I can use AI
to sift through piles of logs or figure
out troubleshooting you and I know if if
the favorite site you go to is offline
you just go to another one so I got to
get people back online quick so it seems
like having AI it's making the dev
better the platform better the Ops
better and we're only getting started
which is great yeah it's awesome and two
of my favorite things that you mentioned
too is Gemini cusis which again I use
daily almost now and uh Gemini Cloud
assis which is also I'm excited about
that I mean that's uh it's one thing to
do ops it's another to do ops that
understand you like in our example we're
saying hey who who broke the firewall
and it was me I don't like being blamed
publicly but at least you have better
context versus just like generically
here's what you could look at so yeah
that personalization that's the secret
to this next stage of AI nice yeah I
totally agree and you learned your
lesson right you're not going to break
the firewall again yeah not in front of
my boss now wonderful okay so another
really interesting thing that's super
exciting is Gemini IG query and all of
the amazing features that come with that
you can build apps and data agents with
multimodal AI and I've actually tried
this out as well so what's your favorite
part of that like talk through us a
little talk us through that a little bit
Yeah I think the most powerful part is
it's all in one environment like that
big query Studio environment where I'm
not only writing queries I'm getting it
generating queries it's doing the
multimodal I can query against images or
text I'm not bouncing between different
things even we showed continuous queries
where you can keep running this and big
query will actually host your query just
keep running it and checking like that's
super powerful stuff that back to the
simplification a few years ago this was
like 10 products now we're sitting going
maybe it's just one thing that just
makes this easier so I just love how big
query is becoming the center of this and
making it easier to do really
sophisticated things yeah and I
reiterate that it's helping devs deliver
software more simply quicker and
honestly just in a more enjoyable way
because of you know less context
switching things are being done for you
automation completely l l exactly and of
course you know something that's being
talked about all the time now is rag
it's not just a towel that you clean
your floors with retrieval augmented
generation of course uh it helps
optimize the output of our
llms can you give me a little Deep dive
into Rag and how are we using it with
our LMS yeah I mean I think when you see
there's I think what three ways people
can make the output of a model better
you can give it better prompts stuff
more stuff in there and direct it you
can do fine tuning and actually take a
model and like train it with your own
data that's expensive and can have its
own thing but instead this retrieval
augmented generation says can I use the
base model but then dip into another
data source to complement that input so
we're making it a little easier to say
yeah give me a data source and we'll
chunk it all up and handle it for you
and then when you make those queries you
have more trust in the output because
it's actually looking up your data
complimenting that with what it's
looking at so I think as people want to
have trust in this this can't just be a
play thing like you and I will be so
frustrated if everyone just uses gen for
fun and not to actually get to ruction
like I of want to just use this in Dev I
want to use this all the way so you have
to trust it though and so the tools
we've been doing the support now across
almost every Google Cloud database for
Vector search and things like that super
powerful we're not saying it's only one
way to do it there's a few ways but
we're making it simpler and I love what
you said about increasing that trust
right cuz that's what this does make
sure that you can trust the answers that
you're getting just a little bit more
yeah I know that you love all your
children equally right all of these
announcements are amazing yeah do you
have a secret favorite not so secret I
mean from this week's things I am
excited a lot about the codus as Cloud
as to speak I think there's a bringing
AI to how we develop and operate
software there's so much room to make
this better like you and I still and at
least I pretend to be a developer still
like any assistance I can get where it
lets me focus on the fun parts of it and
I don't have to do some of the other
pieces I care about the other pieces but
somebody smarter than me in this case a
robot should be doing some of this for
me or helping me troubleshoot so I think
unveiling Cloud assist showing how code
assist is now getting smarter having
able more context it's going to be such
a game changer right now I'm I'm excited
for what the next 10 years of software
looks like yes I totally agree it really
does make our lives easier as developers
I've been using it and it's so funny
because sometimes I'm doing something
and we'll forget that we have this at
our fingertips now right because it's
new and exciting so we'll say oh did you
try using Cod assist for that and say oh
right let me check that out so well
context switching I me when you and I we
go back and I have to go jump to search
results I have to go jump to a weird
blog post I got to do stack Overflow
those are all great sources but it gets
me out of my flow and so we I think
obsessed of keeping people in a flow
state so you just do better work longer
I'm I'm for that yeah exactly and it
feels more like play instead of work
right this should be fun this is the
best time to be doing software we should
be having a blast with this well thank
you so much for being here with us today
it's a pleasure as always welcome and
your Dev keynote was of course recorded
So make sure to check that out and keep
watching because we're going to have a
lot more great interviews and
information about talks coming at you
love it thanks
[Music]
Debbie