hello everyone in this quick video we're
going to learn how to manage workload
profiles in asual content WS using terao
as you can see on the screen I have a
very simple Tero file in my vs code I
have opened I have taken this directly
from the terraform documentation I'm
first creating a resource Group a log
analytics workspace a CS environment and
the container app so if I go into the vs
code I have the same thing here and I
have already initi terraform as well now
I'm going to apply this to create the
resources as you can see I don't have
any workload profile configured here let
me apply this terraform configuration
this can take few minutes to be deployed
and now let me go into Azure portal and
if I go into the Cs environment as you
can see here the environment type is
consumption only and I don't have a tab
to manage workload profiles as well the
reason that I wanted to show you this uh
before doing the workload profile based
deployment is that if you change a
consumption plan to workload profile
mode the whole environment gets
recreated and now let me add a workload
profile into this conts environment so
now all I have to do is adding this uh
code block here work profile the type is
the4 the name and the maximum instance
count and the minimum um instance count
as well so I can add more workload
profiles like this let's say if I wanted
two workload profiles this SI this is
how I can add them and I can change it
to EO for example let's say this is a uh
memory optimized one I'm going to name
it to uh memory optimized and all right
I'm going to save it and now let me run
the terraform plan to see what happens
to the environment all right um as you
can see we are going to add to new
resources and we're going to destroy the
uh the existing resources and if I
scroll up the cup environment this will
be replaced and the conp it's also will
be replaced and I don't think this will
be an issue if you have all the CSD
pipelines and things like that in place
and now I'm going to apply this change
this will destroy the environment that
you have there first and it'll create
the new environment and the type of the
new environment will be workload
profiles and this can take around um 7 7
8 minutes to be deployed all right now
let me go back to the Azure portal and
uh let me refresh this we're going to go
back to the uh the resource Group and
then I'm going to go into the
environment as you can see now the
environment typ is workload profiles if
we look at the tabs that are available
for us we have the workload profiles and
we have the two new workload profiles
that we have added using ter form even
though I have added the two workload
profiles the existing application that
we have created here let me go back to
the code and this is the container WS
environment and this is the container
app that is still in the consumption
there but if I go into that let me just
go into that and look at the environment
type it says workload profile so this
can be a little bit misleading for some
but if we scroll down as you can see we
have the the type of actual worklow
profile of this g r now what is shown
here is the the type of the the
environment now the next question is how
to deploy the existing container app in
the uh workload profile now what happens
if we keep this configuration here is
that you have to pay you'll have to pay
for the workload profile a constant
amount in addition to that you'll have
to pay for the consumption tier content
wrap as well and it is really easy to
change this content wrap from the
consumption there into the workload
profile there so all we have to do is
I'm going to go into the terraform code
and I'm going to apply the workload
profile name here the name the so we
have created two workload profiles I'm
going to copy this name I'm going to use
the same name here this is all we have
to do to assign the consumption TI
container app into a workload profile
and by default this is the default
configuration of the coner WAP if you
want to move a container WAP that is
deployed in a workload profile by
changing this you can move it to the uh
the consumption t let me change this
back to the the workl profile name and
then I'm going to run a terraform plan
command and as you can see the app one
will not be recreated it'll be updated
in place so the change is consumption to
the workload profile now let me run it
all right as you can see we have updated
the app now let me go back to the aure
portal and this is the um the container
app as you can see it's in the
consumption Let me refresh it as you can
see the workload profile is the uh the
new workload profile that we have
created by changing this we're not
changing the the URL or the
functionality of the app in any way so
it's really good flexibility to have I
mean let's say if you have deployed an
application in the workload profiles
tier and if you think it's no longer
required for you to have the the content
wrap in the workload profile here you
can just easily move that to the
consumption here to save some money and
the next thing is you can easily switch
between consumption and the workl
profile mode here in the portal itself
as well now this is what I wanted to
cover in this video today if you have
any comments or video suggestions please
let me know in the comments down below
and don't forget to like the video and
subscribe if you learn something new
today I will see you with another video
like this soon and thanks for watching